“This spring I’m going to work out and get in shape so I can wear a bikini on the beach.”

We are going to work out at the gym around 9:00 AM tomorrow.

I had a great workout yesterday. I was exhausted when I got home.

To really build strength you need to bench press every time you work out.”

“I use a 45 pound barbell when I bench press.”

“I usually work out my arms with dumbbells.”

“I added some extra weight to really feel the burn.”

“Sometimes I will max out on the bench press to impress my friends.”

“You are going to have to get a spot if plan on lifting that much weight!”

“I use the nautilus equipment when I just want to get an aerobic workout.”

“I prefer the free weights over the nautilus machines.

“Before the football season the athlete decided to bulk up.”

“Last summer Mary really wanted to look good in a bathing suite. She decided to get a personal trainer that would help push her.”



Exercise Gym - Lifting Weights Popular types of exercising are conducted in the gym or health club. When I refer to a gym, I am implying a health club. Two common types of exercising in the gym are working out / lifting weights, or using machines such as treadmills, bicycle machines, step machines, etc. It's common for guys to get together and talk about lifting weights. Likewise, girls get together and discuss the best methods to lose weight. In this lesson, we are going to lay the ground work on talking about exercising in the gym.


Lifting weights - Professional weight lifters are called body builders. But since the number of body builders are not significant, we are going to concentrate more on regular weight lifting.
I don't lift weights, but when I see a friend who is noticeably bigger due to lifting weights, these are the types of things I say.
"Have you been lifting?"
You do not need to say lifting weights. When you say lifting, it's understood that you are talking about weights.
"You got big man."
"How long have you been lifting?"
Other terminologies for lifting weights are:
Pumping Iron
Pressing Iron
Pressing Weights
Working Out
Weight Training
Hitting the Gym

	To ask how they work out or what their routine is, you can ask: "When you bench, how many reps and sets do you do?"
	Reps are repetition. In weight lifting terminology, this means how many times they lift in one set.
	"Do you do low reps with heavy weights, or many reps with light weight."
	"How many sets do you do when you work out your arms?"

If you are the person being asked these questions, here are ways you can answer: "I work out at 24 Hour Fitness"
"I work out at Bally's"
"I work out at Samsung Health Club"
"I started lifting weights about 2 years ago."
"I have been lifting weights for about 2 years now."
"I just started 9 months ago."
"I usually work out 2 hours a day 4 times a week."
"I work out everyday for an hour."
"I go to the gym 3 times a week."
"I go in every other day."
"I can bench press 220 pounds."
"I squat 400 pounds."
"I curl 90 pounds."
"I'm trying to gain bulk so I'm doing low reps with heavy weights."
"I'm trying to get ripped, so I'm doing a lot of repetitions."
Ripped means to get lines to show up in the muscles. It's called ripped because when you rip a piece of paper, you see a line in the paper where the tear is. So a person is ripped when you can see lines on his body due to muscles.


	Many people lift weights in the health club, but many people also go to lose weight using machines such as the treadmill and bicycle machines.
	Here are some things you can say in a conversation if you fall into this category. "When I go to the health club, I usually spend 30 minutes on the treadmill, 20 minutes on the bicycle, and finally 10 minutes on the step 	master."
	"There is no place to run in the city, so I have to do my running on the treadmill."
	"It always rains around here so I like to exercise in the gym."
	"I usually use the treadmill, but I try to work on the nautilus machines at least twice a week."
	"My wife exercises four times a week."
	"My husband can't last 10 minutes on the step machine."